# CS-340-Client-Server-Development-2024

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  In order to keep my programs readable and maintable I take organization very seriously and plan out each step of my project beforehand. Taking this steps before doing any coding allows me time to brainstorm how I might want to approach the actual development and gives me a plan to refer back to if I ever get confused or down during the project. For example, In the CRUD Python module keeping each function and the code in general organized allowed for easy-ier additions or modifications as they were needed. Adding more widgets or giving the user more freedom on the dashboard were less stressful and troublesome to implement. I could adapt the CRUD Python module in the future where and whenever I might need to connect to databases in the future and at the very least it gives me a stronger foundation for developing more in the future. 

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

  I approach problems as a computer scientist very logically and to the point. At the end of the day the computer is only going to do what you tell it to do so I need my code to be as clear and conscise as it can be to limit the amount of bugs later on down the line. This allows leaves room for my code to be organized and easier to read if and when there is an issue or when others programmers are reading my code. 

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  Computer scientists create programs to help others and automate tasks to name a few things they do. The roles of a computer scientist can go on and on but creating programs is a pretty big one and the work of a computer scientist can help people across the world in their day to day lives. For example the work done on the Grazioso Salvare project has helped Grazioso find, keep, and track optimal types of dogs for training in rescue missions. The database allows users to look up specifics about dogs, or any animal at the shelters, so they can then adopt and train them to help other people out in the field. This database makes doing all of this infinitely easier and simpler rather than having to manually hunt down each shelter and keep constant tabs. Calling or visiting just isn't feasible when it can be done instantly from any computer. 
